I'm happy to say that I've finally put my thesis online and updated
my `Publications <https://baptiste-wicht.com/stories/publications.html>`_ page.

I should have done that earlier but it slipped my mind, so there it is!

My thesis (Deep Learning Feature Extraction for Image Processing) is now
available to download.  Here is the abstract of the thesis:

In this thesis, we propose to use methodologies that automatically learn how to
extract relevant features from images. We are especially interested in
evaluating how these features compare against handcrafted features. More
precisely, we are interested in the unsupervised training that is used for the
Restricted Boltzmann Machine (RBM) and Convolutional RBM (CRBM) models. These
models relaunched the Deep Learning interest of the last decade. During the time
of this thesis, the auto-encoders approach, especially Convolutional
Auto-Encoders (CAE) have been used more and more. Therefore, one objective of
this thesis is also to compare the CRBM approach with the CAE approach.

The scope of this work is defined by several machine learning tasks. The first
one, handwritten digit recognition, is analysed to see how much the unsupervised
pretraining technique introduced with the Deep Belief Network (DBN) model
improves the training of neural networks. The second, detection and recognition
of Sudoku in images, is evaluating the efficiency of DBN and Convolutional DBN
(CDBN) models for classification of images of poor quality. Finally, features
are learned fully unsupervised from images for a keyword spotting task and are
compared against well-known handcrafted features. Moreover, the thesis was also
oriented around a software engineering axis. Indeed, a complete machine learning
framework was developed during this thesis to explore possible optimizations and
possible algorithms in order to train the tested models as fast as possible.

If you are interested, you can:

* `Read it on ResearchGate <https://www.researchgate.net/publication/322505397_Deep_Learning_feature_Extraction_for_Image_Processing>`_
* `Directly download the PDF <https://baptiste-wicht.com/publication_store/phd_thesis.pdf>`_

I hope this will interest a few of you! As always, if you have any question,
don't hesitate to let me a comment ;)

As for the current projects, I'm still currently working on the next version of
budgetwarrior, but I don't have any expected release date. It will depend on
much time I'm able to put to the project.
